# Part 2: ASSOCIATION RULE MINING

You can access the dataset at this [link](https://wiki.csc.calpoly.edu/datasets/wiki/ExtendedBakery).

## Q1: Objectives

The domain of this data sets is about the large set of transactional data from a bakery chain which has a menu of about 40 pastry items and 10 coffee drinks. This bakery chain has a several locations in West Coast of United State which includes California, Oregon, Arizona and Nevada. In the dataset, there is a list of shopping baskets which contain what have been purchased by the customers. Hence, we can make use of this information to find the patterns that occur frequently by applying association rule mining using Apriori algorithm. 

There are many potential benefits can be derived from these association rules. This includes extracting the marketing information that can be used to improve business. For instance, the bakery shop would improve their product placement according to frequent items purchased by the customers. This creates convenience for customers as they can reach their preferred items once they entered the shop or just grab the item without having to look and search for it. Besides that, the frequent items that have higher confidence in the basket can be combined together with lower confidence as a bundle to push the sales of the items that are not popular. 

Other than that, we can group items with high correlations for catalog creation. This can attract more customer at the first sight as they can likely find whatever relevant items they were to buy in a short amount of time. Different promotion or discount coupon can also be integrated as part of the catalog for bundle discounts.  

Furthermore, recommendation will also be more effective when we have the patterns to do advertising on social platforms like Facebook or Twitter. For customers who have not tried certain items from the bakery shop could be attracted by seeing what other customers have bought together when they visit the shop. Reputation of different items would be improved as they are putting together. 

In addition to that, we can determine what items would be affected if the shop discontinued a certain item. By having the patterns of different items as an antecedent and consequent we can know what is important in the store and make sure it is always served in the top quality so that it will not affect the sales. Therefore, the risk of losing customers will be reduced and the prevention will be improved. 


## Q5: Recommendations

Based on the association rules that generated by using apriori algorithm, we can discovered certain patterns and insights from the dataset, and used that information to get some business strategy, in order to increases the sales performance of the bakery chain store. From the rules that had discovered, we can givens three suggestion for the bakery chain store.

The first suggestion is they can based on the association rules to improve the placement for difference foods and beverages. For example, from the association rules that generated, we can see that LHS of the rule that contains green tea item, the RHS sure will be lemon product such as lemon cookie, lemon lemonade and raspberry lemonade. Mean that, customer who buy green tea, will be has higher confidence also buying lemon product. For this reason, staff can replace the lemon product as near as possible to green tea item. This will make the customer more convenience when they are trying to buying these two items.

For the second suggestion, they can also make some promotion or discount based on certain items that customer buy. For example, the association rules shows that customer who buy almond twist, hot coffee and coffee éclair which also has higher confidence buying apple pie together. Therefore, we can based on this information to offer some interesting promotion or discount such as each of these items can bundle with apple pie sells at a special promotions price or buying any two of these items will receive a free apple pie. By doing this way, it can improve the sales of these items and will return a good profit.

The last suggestion is sales man can based on the association rules to recommend items to customers before they are trying to made payment. When a customer is trying to purchase an item, before making the payment, sales man can recommend others items that is higher correlation to the items that customer purchase. Given an example, a customer is purchase chocolate tart, from the association rules shows that customer who bought chocolate tart which had high interest purchase with vanilla Frappuccino and walnut cookie together. Therefore, sales man can recommend these 2 items to customer before making their payment. This will increase customer interest to buy these recommend items.
